+++
title = 'Creating an Emulator in Go: Before we start'
date = '2026-06-27T00:00:00-03:00'
draft = false
+++

## Who am I

My name is Heron Ximenes, I'm a 23-year-old Brazilian full-stack web developer, and I really like programming

> Yeh, I have the same name as that one bird :>)

I started programming when I was 14, but I only started taking programming seriously when I was 18.

Some of my best childhood memories are playing SNES games with my dad and my family. My grandmother still plays Super Mario World today.

## What We'll Build

Throughout this series, we'll build a Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) emulator from scratch using Go. You can use any other language after understanding the basics. I chose Go because it's the language I know best, and it's simple enough that I expect you'll be able to translate what I show into your favorite language without much trouble.

By the end, you'll understand how the NES CPU, memory, graphics, and input work together, and you'll have an emulator capable of running some real NES games

## Who is this for?

This series is for anyone who wants to better understand how computers really work

I assume you already know the basics of programming, but you don't need any previous knowledge of emulation or computer architecture. I'll explain everything from first principles.

If you're a self-taught developer, a web developer curious about lower-level programming, or just someone who has always wondered how emulators work, I hope you'll enjoy following along :)
